recommendations_md/jeffrey-roth.md, before:

---
name: Jeffrey Roth
headline: Director. Program Management, Core Search at Google
relationship: Jeffrey was Senior Director to Xavier
dateCreated: 2024-01-26
profileImagePath: "/recommendations/profile_pics/jeff.webp"
linkedInLink: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeffrey-roth-a374b61
previewText: >
  When starting a new process, Xavier was able to engage stakeholders in
  finding pain points and consult with subject matter experts. Xavier's
  experience often required collaborating...
showInSlides: true
---

As Director of the Search Language Specialists team, I had the opportunity
to lead the SLS program. Over the last years, Xavier has contributed to
several teams and projects displaying technical expertise and project
management skills in order to further the program's goals of scaling and
serving feature engineering teams.

His deep technical expertise in SQL and Python code and integration of
several internal systems allowed him to tackle complex challenges such as
spearheading the building of an extensive SQL data extraction, data
cleaning, and feature alert system for improved time-sensitive features.

Xavier was happy to engage with adjacent teams to plan, offer technical
decision making, and implement automation.

When starting a new process, Xavier was able to engage stakeholders in
finding pain points and consult with subject matter experts. Xavier's
experience often required collaborating with Program Managers, Product
Managers, Software Engineers, and Engineering Managers to provide a unified
solution to internal client teams.

Xavier has built a strong track record of building processes and automation
from the ground up. He easily combines engineering knowledge and strategic
leadership by driving projects end-to-end while tracking and reporting as
the project progresses. He takes complete responsibility, driving progress
from initial conception to final execution. This dedication, coupled with
his organizational acumen, results in the consistent delivery of
high-quality, impactful solutions.

Regards, Jeffrey

Commit message:

Update Jeffrey Roth's recommendation to highlight Xavier's expertise in building processes and automation from the ground up.
Signed-off-by: Xavier <collantes.xavier@gmail.com>

recommendations_md/jeffrey-roth.md, after:

---
name: Jeffrey Roth
headline: Director. Program Management, Core Search at Google
relationship: Jeffrey was Senior Director to Xavier
dateCreated: 2024-01-26
profileImagePath: "/recommendations/profile_pics/jeff.webp"
linkedInLink: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeffrey-roth-a374b61
previewText: >
  Xavier has built a strong track record of building processes and automation
  from the ground up
showInSlides: true
---

As Director of the Search Language Specialists team, I had the opportunity
to lead the SLS program. Over the last years, Xavier has contributed to
several teams and projects displaying technical expertise and project
management skills in order to further the program's goals of scaling and
serving feature engineering teams.

His deep technical expertise in SQL and Python code and integration of
several internal systems allowed him to tackle complex challenges such as
spearheading the building of an extensive SQL data extraction, data
cleaning, and feature alert system for improved time-sensitive features.

Xavier was happy to engage with adjacent teams to plan, offer technical
decision making, and implement automation.

When starting a new process, Xavier was able to engage stakeholders in
finding pain points and consult with subject matter experts. Xavier's
experience often required collaborating with Program Managers, Product
Managers, Software Engineers, and Engineering Managers to provide a unified
solution to internal client teams.

Xavier has built a strong track record of building processes and automation
from the ground up. He easily combines engineering knowledge and strategic
leadership by driving projects end-to-end while tracking and reporting as
the project progresses. He takes complete responsibility, driving progress
from initial conception to final execution. This dedication, coupled with
his organizational acumen, results in the consistent delivery of
high-quality, impactful solutions.

Regards, Jeffrey
