articles/google.md, before:

---
title: Technical Solutions Consultant, Google Search
cardDescription: Improving Google Search for 2.7 billion users globally.
cardPageLink: articles/google
imagePath: ""
author: Xavier Collantes
dateWritten: 2024-01-15
tagIds:
  - python
  - grpc
  - protobuffer
  - management
  - cloud
  - consulting
  - search
  - google
  - code
  - webdev
  - devops
---

If you have ever used [google.com](https://www.google.com), odds are you have
seen my work.

[![Google logo {priority}](/articles/images/google/google_logo.webp)](https://www.google.com/search?q=google+in+1998)

## The ultimate web development experience

With my time at Google, I am lucky enough to have contributed to one of the most
recognizable products in history and hone my skills with the brightest minds in
the world!

As Google is diverse and far reaching in its products, so has been my experience
in honing my skills in software engineering and product management to improve
features for the 2.7 billion Google Search users globally<sup>1</sup>.

## Software engineering

![Image of me {priority}](/articles/images/google/front.webp)

###### Mountain View, California

What does the _Technical_ of _Technical Solutions Consultant_ mean?

The TSC role varies depending on the needs of the team. In my case, I spent
about 75% of time on Software Engineering tasks such as:

- Writing code
- Asking for code to be reviewed and reviewing code
- Writing and running required unit and integration testing
- Weighing technical decisions such as which systems to use for certain use
  cases
- Writing scripts integrating disparate systems to gather data for business
  goals
- Creating design documentation and diagrams in cross-functional teams of
  Feature Engineers, UX designers, Program Managers, Product Managers, and Data
  Analysts

![Image of group {priority}](/articles/images/google/circle_group.jpeg)

Google uses mostly internal tools for the development of software but Google has
made many available to the public. The following are the tools I am most
proficient with internal tools replaced by their external counterparts:

- Python 3
- [Borg](https://research.google/pubs/large-scale-cluster-management-at-google-with-borg) (externally as Kubernetes)
- SQL
- [Absl library](https://abseil.io)
- TypeScript
- [gRPCs](https://grpc.io) for API calls and interacting between servers
- [ProtoBuffers](https://protobuf.dev/history) for organizing and
  hyper-efficient transfer of data
- [Issue Tracker](https://issuetracker.google.com) for issue management
- [Bazel](https://bazel.build) as a build infrastructure for dependencies
- [Spanner](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spanner_(database)>) distributed
  NoSQL database for consistent replication globally able to handle exabytes of
  data

A couple books I live by as an engineer are published by Google:

- [Software Engineering at
  Google](https://abseil.io/resources/swe-book/html/toc.html)
  - _"The Software Engineering at Google book (“SWE Book”) is not about
    programming, per se, but about the engineering practices utilized at Google
    to make their codebase sustainable and healthy."_
- [Google's Site Reliability Engineer handbook](https://sre.google/sre-book/table-of-contents)

## The Consultant

<div style="width:100%;height:0;padding-bottom:25%;position:relative;">
  <iframe src="https://giphy.com/embed/3otPoCmoVM8gvKbAEo" width="100%"
    height="100%" style="position:absolute" frameBorder="0" class="giphy-embed">
  </iframe>
</div>

What does the _Solutions Consultant_ of _Technical Solutions Consultant_ mean?

The other 25% of my time is spent on strategic project goals.

In general, a TSC creates or optimizes processes by running pilots with engineers
and vendors. If there is traction and success in the process, the project can
scale up.

A typical project for me would generally follow the process:

1. Identify issue, pain points, or opportunity
1. Scope requirements in time and resources
1. Pilot program to discover new requirements and issues in practice
1. Propose top solutions weighing cost and benefit for each
1. Gain approval (funding if needed)
1. Implement process by writing code, setting up IAM infrastructure, delegate
   tasks

Accomplishing these tasks requires meticulous documentation and well-defined
metrics. The metrics are chosen at the beginning and determine if the project
should continue.

## Scaling

_"You can solve a problem once but at Google you have to go further and solve it
globally"_ was the catchphrase of a manager I once had, which summed up the
complexity of issues at Google. Often in my work, it was not good enough to
figure out a problem but how do you solve the issue for as many use cases?

[![{h: 250}](/articles/images/google/xkcd.png)](https://xkcd.com/2797)

<sup>1</sup>_Disclaimer: Statistics and figures in this article are based on publicly known
data. The figure "2.7 billion users daily"; this is calculated by taking "8.5
billion searches a day" as determined by
[InternetLiveStats.com](https://www.internetlivestats.com/one-second/#google-band)
in 2022 and dividing from
[Moz.com's](https://moz.com/blog/new-google-survey-results) research of where
users were found to use Search "3 to 4 times daily". Actual metrics are not
included since this is confidential information._

Commit message:

Add blog about scaling
Signed-off-by: Xavier <collantes.xavier@gmail.com>

articles/google.md, after:

---
title: Technical Solutions Consultant, Google Search
cardDescription: Improving Google Search for 2.7 billion users globally.
cardPageLink: articles/google
imagePath: ""
author: Xavier Collantes
dateWritten: 2024-01-15
tagIds:
  - python
  - grpc
  - protobuffer
  - management
  - cloud
  - consulting
  - search
  - google
  - code
  - webdev
  - devops
---

If you have ever used [google.com](https://www.google.com), odds are you have
seen my work.

[![Google logo {priority}](/articles/images/google/google_logo.webp)](https://www.google.com/search?q=google+in+1998)

## The ultimate web development experience

With my time at Google, I am lucky enough to have contributed to one of the most
recognizable products in history and hone my skills with the brightest minds in
the world!

Most of my work was based on increasing quality for Search features such as
[Knowledge Panels](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Knowledge_Graph).

As Google is diverse and far reaching in its products, so has been my experience
in honing my skills in software engineering and product management to improve
features for the 2.7 billion Google Search users globally<sup>1</sup>.

## Software engineering

![Image of me {priority}](/articles/images/google/front.webp)

###### Mountain View, California

What does the _Technical_ of _Technical Solutions Consultant_ mean?

The TSC role varies depending on the needs of the team. In my case, I spent
about 75% of time on Software Engineering tasks such as:

- Writing code
- Asking for code to be reviewed and reviewing code
- Writing and running required unit and integration testing
- Weighing technical decisions such as which systems to use for certain use
  cases
- Writing scripts integrating disparate systems to gather data for business
  goals
- Creating design documentation and diagrams in cross-functional teams of
  Feature Engineers, UX designers, Program Managers, Product Managers, and Data
  Analysts

![Image of group {priority}](/articles/images/google/circle_group.jpeg)

Google uses mostly internal tools for the development of software but Google has
made many available to the public. The following are the tools I am most
proficient with internal tools replaced by their external counterparts:

- Python 3
- [Borg](https://research.google/pubs/large-scale-cluster-management-at-google-with-borg) (externally as Kubernetes)
- SQL
- [Absl library](https://abseil.io)
- TypeScript
- [gRPCs](https://grpc.io) for API calls and interacting between servers
- [ProtoBuffers](https://protobuf.dev/history) for organizing and
  hyper-efficient transfer of data
- [Issue Tracker](https://issuetracker.google.com) for issue management
- [Bazel](https://bazel.build) as a build infrastructure for dependencies
- [Spanner](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spanner_(database)>) distributed
  NoSQL database for consistent replication globally able to handle exabytes of
  data

A couple books I live by as an engineer are published by Google:

- [Software Engineering at
  Google](https://abseil.io/resources/swe-book/html/toc.html)
  - _"The Software Engineering at Google book (“SWE Book”) is not about
    programming, per se, but about the engineering practices utilized at Google
    to make their codebase sustainable and healthy."_
- [Google's Site Reliability Engineer handbook](https://sre.google/sre-book/table-of-contents)

## The Consultant

<div style="width:100%;height:0;padding-bottom:25%;position:relative;">
  <iframe src="https://giphy.com/embed/3otPoCmoVM8gvKbAEo" width="100%"
    height="100%" style="position:absolute" frameBorder="0" class="giphy-embed">
  </iframe>
</div>

What does the _Solutions Consultant_ of _Technical Solutions Consultant_ mean?

The other 25% of my time is spent on strategic project goals.

In general, a TSC creates or optimizes processes by running pilots with engineers
and vendors. If there is traction and success in the process, the project can
scale up.

A typical project for me would generally follow the process:

1. Identify issue, pain points, or opportunity
1. Scope requirements in time and resources
1. Pilot program to discover new requirements and issues in practice
1. Propose top solutions weighing cost and benefit for each
1. Gain approval (funding if needed)
1. Implement process by writing code, setting up IAM infrastructure, delegate
   tasks

Accomplishing these tasks requires meticulous documentation and well-defined
metrics. The metrics are chosen at the beginning and determine if the project
should continue.

## Scaling

_"You can solve a problem once but at Google you have to go further and solve it
globally"_ was the catchphrase of a manager I once had, which summed up the
complexity of issues at Google. Often in my work, it was not good enough to
figure out a problem but how do you solve the issue for as many use cases?

[![{h: 250}](/articles/images/google/xkcd.png)](https://xkcd.com/2797)

Scaling at Google requires drawing lines in the project plan in scope. As a
leader, you must say no to some features or functions which may over-extend the
team. A core-competency must be established or in other words, "what you are
good in that no other person or team can do?".

When I was establishing a process with the goal of choosing the best translation
for Search features, you have to calculate the complexity of the problem by
asking questions such as:

- How many features are there?
- How many languages do we need to cover?
- Do we need to have all the languages? Maybe just the target ones?
- Which languages yield the most impact?

<sup>1</sup>_Disclaimer: Statistics and figures in this article are based on
publicly known data. The figure "2.7 billion users daily"; this is calculated by
taking "8.5 billion searches a day" as determined by
[InternetLiveStats.com](https://www.internetlivestats.com/one-second/#google-band)
in 2022 and dividing from
[Moz.com's](https://moz.com/blog/new-google-survey-results) research of where
users were found to use Search "3 to 4 times daily". Actual metrics are not
included since this is confidential information._
