articles/mcp-servers.md, before:

---
title: "Top MCP Servers"
cardDescription: "My playlist of useful MCP servers"
author: Xavier Collantes
dateWritten: 2025-08-24
cardPageLink: "/articles/mcp-servers"
articleType: BLOG
imagePath: "/assets/images/mcp-servers/"
tagIds:
  - llm
  - ai
  - ml
  - machine-learning
  - ai-agents
  - mcp
  - databases
  - api
---

In my last blog, I talked about the benefits and when to use Model Context
Protocol (MCP) and how it can help you use LLMs more effectively.

<callout
  type="article"
  title="Why MCP?"
  description="Learn about the benefits and when to use MCP."
  url="/articles/mcp"
  urltext="See blog">
</callout>

For this blog, I will be talking about popular MCP servers.

## Video

[invideo.io: MCP](http://invideo.io/ai/mcp/) - Create videos from a text prompt.

## Software Infrastructure Management

[Kubernetes MCP Server](https://github.com/flux159/mcp-server-kubernetes) -
For interacting with Kubernetes such as creating pods, services, and
deployments.

## Programming Workflow

[github.com: GitHub MCP Server](https://github.com/github/github-mcp-server) -
For interacting with GitHub such as creating issues, pull requests, and
repositories.

[vercel.com: Vercel MCP](https://vercel.com/docs/mcp/vercel-mcp) - For
interacting with your Vercel deployments.

## MCP Server Aggregators

Collections of MCP servers.

[pulsemcp.com: Servers](https://www.pulsemcp.com/servers) - A collection of MCP
servers frequently updated by community developers and big companies.

## Further Reading

[datacamp.com: Top MCP Servers](https://www.datacamp.com/blog/top-mcp-servers-and-clients)

[apidog.com: Top 10 MCP Servers](https://apidog.com/blog/top-10-mcp-servers/)

Commit message:

Add web search section to MCP servers article.
Signed-off-by: Xavier <collantes.xavier@gmail.com>

articles/mcp-servers.md, after:

---
title: "Top MCP Servers"
cardDescription: "My playlist of useful MCP servers"
author: Xavier Collantes
dateWritten: 2025-08-24
cardPageLink: "/articles/mcp-servers"
articleType: BLOG
imagePath: "/assets/images/mcp-servers/"
tagIds:
  - llm
  - ai
  - ml
  - machine-learning
  - ai-agents
  - mcp
  - databases
  - api
---

In my last blog, I talked about the benefits and when to use Model Context
Protocol (MCP) and how it can help you use LLMs more effectively.

<callout
  type="article"
  title="Why MCP?"
  description="Learn about the benefits and when to use MCP."
  url="/articles/mcp"
  urltext="See blog">
</callout>

For this blog, I will be talking about popular MCP servers.

## Video

[invideo.io: MCP](http://invideo.io/ai/mcp/) - Create videos from a text prompt.

## Web Search

Search engine capabilities.

[Brave Search](https://www.pulsemcp.com/servers/modelcontextprotocol-brave-search) -
For actions which need to search the web.

<callout
  type="note"
  description="Google Search does not have an official external API. So many
  developers use Brave Search or SerpAPI to get search results.">
</callout>

## Software Infrastructure Management

[Kubernetes MCP Server](https://github.com/flux159/mcp-server-kubernetes) -
For interacting with Kubernetes such as creating pods, services, and
deployments.

## Programming Workflow

[github.com: GitHub MCP Server](https://github.com/github/github-mcp-server) -
For interacting with GitHub such as creating issues, pull requests, and
repositories.

[vercel.com: Vercel MCP](https://vercel.com/docs/mcp/vercel-mcp) - For
interacting with your Vercel deployments.

## MCP Server Aggregators

Collections of MCP servers.

[pulsemcp.com: Servers](https://www.pulsemcp.com/servers) - A collection of MCP
servers frequently updated by community developers and big companies.

## Further Reading

[datacamp.com: Top MCP Servers](https://www.datacamp.com/blog/top-mcp-servers-and-clients)

[apidog.com: Top 10 MCP Servers](https://apidog.com/blog/top-10-mcp-servers/)
